# Install-AzsSupportModule

## SYNOPSIS
Install the AzsSupport Module to remote computers if not installed or version mismatch.

## SYNTAX

```
Install-AzsSupportModule [-ComputerName] <String[]> [[-Credential] <PSCredential>] [-Force]
 [-ProgressAction <ActionPreference>] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION
This function checks if the Microsoft.AzLocal.CSSTools module is installed on the specified remote computers and if the version matches the local version.
If the module is not installed or there is a version mismatch, it copies the module from the local computer to the remote computer.
It also has an option to force the installation, which will copy the module regardless of the current state on the remote computer.

## EXAMPLES

### EXAMPLE 1
```
Install-AzsSupportModule -ComputerName @('Node01', 'Node02')
```

Checks each remote computer for the installed module version and copies the local module if missing or outdated.

### EXAMPLE 2
```
$cred = Get-Credential
PS> Install-AzsSupportModule -ComputerName 'Node01' -Credential $cred -Force
```

Forces a reinstall of the module on the remote computer by copying the local module regardless of remote version.

## PARAMETERS

### -ComputerName
Type the NetBIOS name, an IP address, or a fully qualified domain name of one or more remote computers.

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: 1
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Credential
Specifies a user account that has permission to perform this action.
The default is the current user.
Type a user name, such as User01 or Domain01\User01, or enter a PSCredential object generated by the Get-Credential cmdlet.
If you type a user name, you're prompted to enter the password.

```yaml
Type: PSCredential
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 2
Default value: [System.Management.Automation.PSCredential]::Empty
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Force
Forces a cleanup and re-install of the module on the remote computer.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: False
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ProgressAction
{{ Fill ProgressAction Description }}

```yaml
Type: ActionPreference
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: proga

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters
This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable, -InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose, -WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see [about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

## OUTPUTS

### System.Void
### This cmdlet does not return objects. It writes progress and status/error messages.
## NOTES

## RELATED LINKS
