TSG/Networking/README.md, before:

# TSG and Reference Documents for Azure Local Networking

## 📚 Quick Access Directory

### Arc Gateway & Outbound Connectivity
- [Deep Dive: Arc Gateway Outbound Traffic](Arc-Gateway-Outbound-Connectivity/deepdive-arcgateway-outbound-traffic.md)
- [Troubleshoot: General Outbound Connectivity](Arc-Gateway-Outbound-Connectivity/Troubleshoot-Outbound-Connectivity.md)

### Top of Rack Switch
- [Reference: 2-Node Switchless Storage](Top-Of-Rack-Switch/Reference-TOR-2Node-Switchless-Storage.md)
- [Reference: BGP Configuration](Top-Of-Rack-Switch/Reference-TOR-BGP.md)
- [Reference: Disaggregated Switched Storage](Top-Of-Rack-Switch/Reference-TOR-Disaggregated-Switched-Storage.md)
- [Reference: Explicit Congestion Notification](Top-Of-Rack-Switch/Reference-TOR-Explicit-Congestion-Notification.md)
- [Reference: QoS Policy Configuration](Top-Of-Rack-Switch/Reference-TOR-QOS-Policy-Configuration.md)

### SDN Express
- [How To: SDN Layer 3 Gateway Configuration](SDN-Express/HowTo-SDNExpress-SDN-Layer3-Gateway-Configuration.md)
- [Troubleshoot: Host Unreachable](SDN-Express/Troubleshoot-SDNExpress-HealthAlert-HostUnreachable.md)
- [Troubleshoot: Outbound Connectivity Issues with NAT](SDN-Express/Troubleshoot-SDNExpress-Outbound-Connectivity-Issues-When-Using-Outbound-NAT.md)
- [Troubleshoot: Recreate Intent Without SR-IOV](SDN-Express/Troubleshoot-SDNExpress-Recreate-Intent-No-SRIOV.md)

---

## Contributing

For contribution guidelines see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

Add network environment validator framework

TSG/Networking/README.md, after:

# TSG and Reference Documents for Azure Local Networking

For Azure Local Network Resources related to Environment Validator, see [TSG/EnvironmentValidator/Networking/README.md](TSG/EnvironmentValidator/Networking/README.md).

## 📚 Quick Access Directory

### Arc Gateway & Outbound Connectivity
- [Deep Dive: Arc Gateway Outbound Traffic](Arc-Gateway-Outbound-Connectivity/deepdive-arcgateway-outbound-traffic.md)
- [Troubleshoot: General Outbound Connectivity](Arc-Gateway-Outbound-Connectivity/Troubleshoot-Outbound-Connectivity.md)

### Top of Rack Switch Configuration
- [Reference: 2-Node Switchless Storage](Top-Of-Rack-Switch/Reference-TOR-2Node-Switchless-Storage.md)
- [Reference: BGP Configuration](Top-Of-Rack-Switch/Reference-TOR-BGP.md)
- [Reference: Disaggregated Switched Storage](Top-Of-Rack-Switch/Reference-TOR-Disaggregated-Switched-Storage.md)
- [Reference: Explicit Congestion Notification](Top-Of-Rack-Switch/Reference-TOR-Explicit-Congestion-Notification.md)
- [Reference: QoS Policy Configuration](Top-Of-Rack-Switch/Reference-TOR-QOS-Policy-Configuration.md)

### SDN Express
- [How To: SDN Layer 3 Gateway Configuration](SDN-Express/HowTo-SDNExpress-SDN-Layer3-Gateway-Configuration.md)
- [Troubleshoot: Host Unreachable](SDN-Express/Troubleshoot-SDNExpress-HealthAlert-HostUnreachable.md)
- [Troubleshoot: Outbound Connectivity Issues with NAT](SDN-Express/Troubleshoot-SDNExpress-Outbound-Connectivity-Issues-When-Using-Outbound-NAT.md)
- [Troubleshoot: Recreate Intent Without SR-IOV](SDN-Express/Troubleshoot-SDNExpress-Recreate-Intent-No-SRIOV.md)

---

## Contributing

For contribution guidelines see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).
